Welcome back in this lesson we're going to be looking at comparison operators.
So these are operators that are used within logical statements and they give us the ability to determine
and compare the difference between two different values.
So we're going to use the two variables that we set up in the previous lesson and we're going to do
a comparison of those.
So let's save that bring that in to our cons..
And I've got a value of A which is five a value of B which is 4.
And let's do a comparison operator so it's different than the assignment operator.
We've got one equal sign.
And what we're doing is we're looking at if A is equal to B and we get a boolean response which is false.
So if we do A is equal to B but we do B as equal plus 2 B plus 1 we now we see that A is actually equal
to B plus 1.
So that's true.
So because they're both equal to 5.
So another really interesting one so I'm set up a variable and I have a set up of string this time and
a string value of 5.
So now we've got a value for c which is a string value of five value of AA which is about a numeric
value of 5.
And let's see if A is equal to see.
And surprisingly we get back true because actual values contained within these variables is going to
be true.
But the only thing that's different is the type.
And that's where we add in a third equal sign.
So this gives us the absolute comparison of A and C comparing the type and if we do this one the three
equal signs we get return back false.
We can also do a comparison and check to see if he is not equal to B.
So what do you think the result here is going to be is a not equal to B.
And if your answer to that is true you're correct because A is not equal to B.
We can also do an absolute not equal to as well.
So if we had a value a.
And we're comparing it to B and what's in that bracket because we know that B plus 1 making it 5 would
be equal to A.
So this is a numeric value.
So we're checking to see if it's absolutely not equal to B.
And we see that return back false because it isn't equal the type the type is the same but it's not
equal to because they aren't equal if in comparison we do just be we get a value of true because we
know that A is not equal to absolutely not equal to be.
So in this case we're not.
We've got the same type on both hands but we want to make sure that the type is equal that we do need
to use that.
There's a few other comparison operators.
So there's the greater than sign.
So he has a greater than B is equal to 5.
B is equal to 4.
So let's say true is a less than B.
What do you think the value here is going to be the boolean return value.
We see that that's false.
We can also check to see if it's equal to or greater than.
So let's increment B by 1.
And so now we know that the value of b is fly of the value of A is 5.
So let's check to see if A is greater than B and we get back false.
And the reason that's false is because a actually isn't great and then B because they're equal and this
is where we can do a comparison and we can check to see if A is greater than or equal to B and as well.
We can also change this to less then and we can see that A is less than or equal to B and that comes
back to.
So now that we've seen the comparison operators in action we can also show you one other operator.
And this is the only javascript operate that takes three different values that you can use it.
And it's actually a short cut for the if statement which we are going to be looking at later on.
So the ternary operator basically gives us the ability to compare our condition.
So either true or false.
And if we get back true then it's going to give us the first expression and if we get back false it's
going to give us the second expression.
So let's set this up.
I'm going to call it by.
So it's ternary.
So that's actually within an Tharon ary operator.
So I was going to call it my turn Airey and I'm going to equal to 2.
So this is where I'm going to have a condition.
So any number of these conditions that we looked at depending on what we are returning here if it's
true or false and so on.
I'm also going to add in that variable for see I had in that string value of 5.
So let's say let's add something in here and we'll do a quick quick comparison operator in here.
So a good bracket around those so that we can know that we can complete that condition.
So let's do if A is equal to see then what we want to do.
The output that we want to have is one of equal and if it's not equal then we're going to say not
so basically let's go out and let's refresh the page and I know this looks a little bit complex right
now.
But we can output the value of my Teron Aerie and we can see that the value is actually equal.
So we're doing a computation here using the Teron Airey we're using the conditional operators here and
where outputting a result depending on what that condition is.
And this is a great example of how boolean can be used within javascript to provide a powerful option
for creating conditions where it can simply do a condition check there and return back either true or
false and depending on what gets returned back.
So we can also say that maybe this could be true and maybe this could be false.
And these aren't hooly values.
These are actually going to be the string values.
So we can just as easily set up here and then we could go back and we can put that value and see that
it's true.
So this is the part where we're going to have another exercise and this exercise is going to involve
the prompts again.
But what I want you to do is to evaluate the two numbers that have been entered into the prompts and
to see which one is bigger.
So we can say that we're going to check to see if the first number A is going to be larger than the
second number and if it is that we're going to come up with a customized message and we're going to
output not one alert.
So pause the video and try it for yourself.
Open up your editor and create the two prompts asking for the two numbers numeric values.
And remember again that the numbers coming in from the prompts are going to be string values.
So if we're making any type of comparison here we should convert them into numbers.
So the same thing that we did in the previous exercise and then do that Terry operator where we're evaluating
that and depending on what it comes back or the True or false or in a customized string message and
then have an alert.
So pause the video.
Go ahead try it out and I'm going to show you the solution coming up.
So you had the opportunity to try this out for yourself because it is really important to give it a
go and work with Javascript.
So I'm going to call this one first and prompt next one prompt.
So A and B and this one is going to be second you get rid of C because we don't need to use that.
So he is going to have this one and maybe I'm going to call it message.
So what we want to do is we want to compare the first value of A which is a to the second value which
is B and we want to see which one is bigger.
So we're going to check to see if A is bigger than B and if A is actually bigger than B then that means
that this is true and he is Lerche
and maybe we can also call out the value of a just to make it a little bit more interesting when we're
concatenating those values there.
Also remember that we do want to switch these two numbers.
So can I create a fairly complex statement here.
So it is going to have a lot of what we've learned in the previous lessons and next.
Or maybe we can do first is larger versus larger.
And then over here first is smaller
than and this time let's concatenate be there.
So it doesn't matter that they're not going to be numbers because we're out putting them on strings
anyway.
And then lastly let's add in our ever favorite altered message to the user.
So let's go ahead and try this out in the browser.
Don't forget to add that second bracket around there.
So now let's go out to the browser I can minimize this as well.
And we see when we refresh the page.
So we're being asked for the first number.
So this time let's center in a large number there.
And the second number let's make this one smaller and we see that first is larger because it's a 10.
And we know that's larger than the second number we can of course try this again and this time let's
try a small number for first.
And a really large number for a second and we see that the first is smaller than the second number which
was the number that we entered.
So you did have an opportunity 290 to try this out for yourself.
And this is the beginnings of what Javascript can do.
We see that we're creating those interactions where doing something with the inputs that the user input
is good and we're returning back dynamically generated message back to the user depending on what they're
inputting.
So creating that complete interaction with the user that's coming in to interact with our web application.
So the next lesson we're going to look at logical operators and I'm going to show you even more that
you can do with your javascript code.
So that's coming up.